# Booklist

A small PyQt program which allows you to maintain a list of books you've read.

## Installation

You'll need to have python and pyqt5 installed.

### Linux

For linux, you can do

```sh
sudo apt-get install python python python-qt5
```

If you're on 14.04 or earlier you will have to install qt5 from binaries.
The easiest way to do this is with a `virtualenv`:

```sh
sudo pip install virtualenv
mkdir ~/Downloads/booklist
virtualenv ~/Downloads/booklist --always-copy # use always copy for more self-containment

source ~/Downloads/booklist/bin/activate

# get sip and pyqt5 source
cd ~/Downloads
wget https://sourceforge.net/projects/pyqt/files/PyQt5/PyQt-5.8/PyQt5_gpl-5.8.tar.gz
wget https://sourceforge.net/projects/pyqt/files/sip/sip-4.19.1/sip-4.19.1.zip

tar -xzvf PyQt5_gpl-5.8.tar.gz
tar -xzvf sip-4.19.1.zip

# install sip in the virtualenv
cd sip-4.19.1
python configure.py --incdir /home/user/Downloads/booklist/include/python2.7/
make
make install

# install pyqt5, using the sip version that we just installed in the virtualenv
cd ../PyQt5_gpl-5.8
python configure.py --sip-incdir /home/user/Downloads/booklist/include/python2.7/
make
make install
```

### Windows

For windows, python can be found
[here](https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.5.0/python-3.5.0.exe), and pyqt5
[here](https://sourceforge.net/projects/pyqt/files/PyQt5/PyQt-5.6/PyQt5-5.6-gpl-Py3.5-Qt5.6.0-x32-2.exe/download).
Those two things should be the only thing you need to install, and then you should be able to run the program by clicking on the python script or running `python book_list.py` from the directory in the command prompt.

## Usage

You will first be asked to select a file in which books should be stored. You can select an existing file generated by the application, or type a new file name to save the list there.

There are two tabs; the add tab, where you can add books to the list, and the view tab, where you can view books in the list.

### Add tab

In the add tab, you add books. The return key is linked to the add button, so you can press it at any time to submit the data currently in the text entry boxes.

When you press the add button, the text in the boxes will be cleared, and the cursor will be returned to the title entry field.

You can click the box next to the author field to lock the author. When this box is checked, the author will not be erased when an entry is added.

### View table

Here, you can view, sort and search books in your selected list. Books with a blue background are ones that you have added during this session.
